Document for creating custom segment parameter (#7462)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 16/umbraco-engage/marketers-and-editors/personalization/extending-personalization/implement-custom-segment-parameters.md

---
description: >-
  Discover how to create and manage custom segments.
---

# Implement your own segment parameters

> Umbraco Engage comes with various built-in segment parameters to build a segment, such as "Customer Journey" and "Time of Day". However, you may want to build segments with custom rules that are not part of Engage by default. We've got you covered; you can add your own custom segment parameters to the Engage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Umbraco Engage comes with built-in parameters to build a segment, such as "Customer Journey" and "Time of Day". 

However, you may want to build segments with custom rules that are not part of Engage by default. We've got you covered; you can add your own custom segment parameters to Engage.
```

The following guide will explain how this can be done. Note this is aimed at developers.
There are 3 steps, 2 of which are mandatory and the 3rd is optional:

1. C# definition

> 2. AngularJS definition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Web component definition
```

> 3. (optional) Cockpit visualization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Cockpit visualization (optional) 
```

This guide will use concrete code samples to add a "Day of week" segment parameter where you can select a single day of the week. If a pageview happens on that day the segment parameter will be satisfied.

## 1. C# definition

> Your custom segment parameter will need to be defined in C# in order for the Engage to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your custom segment parameter will need to be defined in C# in order for Engage to use it.
```

    public DayOfWeekSegmentRule(long id, Guid key, long segmentId, string type, string config, bool isNegation, DateTime created, DateTime? updated, DayOfWeekSegmentRuleConfig typedConfig)
        : base(id, segmentId, type, config, isNegation, created, updated)
        => TypedConfig = typedConfig;

    public override bool IsSatisfied(IPersonalizationProfile context)
        => context.Pageview.Timestamp.DayOfWeek == TypedConfig.DayOfWeek;
}
```

And the factory which is used to create an instance of this rule:

```c#
//The segment rule factory needs to be registered so Engage can use it.
[RegisterService(ServiceLifetime.Transient)]
public class DayOfWeekSegmentRuleFactory : ISegmentRuleFactory
{
    public string RuleType { get; } = "DayOfWeek";
    public ISegmentRule CreateRule(string config, bool isNegation, long id, Guid key, long segmentId, DateTime created, DateTime? updated)
    {
        var typedConfig = JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<DayOfWeekSegmentRuleConfig>(config);
        return new DayOfWeekSegmentRule(id, key, segmentId, RuleType, config, isNegation, created, updated, typedConfig);
    }
}
```

> We are using the class DayOfWeekSegmentRuleConfig as a representation of the configuration of the rule, which is not strictly necessary but makes it easier. The configuration is stored as a string in the database but in code we like to have intellisense so we parse the stored configuration to this class:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are using the class DayOfWeekSegmentRuleConfig to represent the rule configuration. This is not strictly necessary but makes it easier. 

The configuration is stored as a string in the database. In code we like to have intellisense so we parse the stored configuration to this class:
```
